.Dd 2024-09-24
.Dt LIBVQHULL 7
.Sh NAME
.Nm libvqhull
.Nd planar convex hull library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In vqhull.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
library provides functions to compute convex hulls on central processing
units efficiently.
.Nm
contains a sequential version, and a version that is parallelised with OpenMP.
Currently, only double precision is supported.
.Pp
Every documented function's manual page provides a self-contained example
illustrating the possible usage.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr VecQuickhull 3 ,
.Xr VecQuickhullP 3
.Sh DEPENDENCIES
.Nm
depends on OpenMP and C math library. So link with
-lvqhull -lm -fopenmp
.Sh MOTIVATION
Getting the full performance from a CPU requires effective use of
vector aka SIMD instructions.
.Nm
is a vectorized version of the Quickhull
algorithm in the 2D case. For higher dimensions and more general algorithms
in computational geometry, check out
.Sy qhull
or
.Sy CGAL
.Sh COMPLEXITY
Quickhull, like Quicksort, has a worst case complexity of O(n^2) where
n is the number of points. In practice we see much better behaviour.
If the convex hull contains h points, we typically observe a runtime of
O(n log(h)). 
.Sh IMPRECISION
It is an important observation that the number of significant digits
in the input, is not always proportional to the number of significant
digits in the output. For example, if you take two measurements x = 1.124 cm,
y = 1.113 cm to 4 significant digits each, you know the difference
x - y = 0.011 cm only to 2 significant digits.
.Nm
returns a set that is only an approximate solution for approximately our problem.
Here approximate means the following.
If we have n points, and u is the machine precision (2^(-24) for
float, 2^(-53) for double), a point is approximately equal if the x-coordinates 
and y-coordinates have been multiplied by a factor smaller than 1 + 3nu.
This is a worst-case bound. Similar to the complexity, if we have h points
on the convex hull, the factor is typically 1 + 3u log(h).
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Thomas Koopman Aq Mt thomas.koopman@ru.nl
.An Jordy Aaldering Aq Mt jordy.aaldering@ru.nl
